---
layout: post
title: Will Tomorrow Still Love Me 
category: sermon(SJ)2018
tags: [love,plan,crisis]
hymns: [514,133]
---
-The love of the world cannot last and cannot withstand pressure and challenges. 
- Who knows what will happen tomorrow?
- If I have everything today, it is easy to love a person

Referring to Ruth 1: 19-22
Naomi went with her daughter in law to her hometown
Nobody recognized Naomi for she had changed – she had lost her wealth and looked like a commoner.

It was then she requested people to call her Mara (bitter) and not Naomi (sweet). Hence the question, if I have lost everything will you still love me?

When faced with bitterness, how do we react; what do we seek?

Ruth 1: 1
There was a famine in Bethlehem, thus Naomi’s family sought after better pastures in Moab. 

Verse 3 – Her husband died soon after. Followed by the eldest and second son. The household only comprised of 3 women; 3 widows.

These are the unforeseen circumstances of life – control over life.

Verse 6 & 7 suggested that Naomi had high hopes for Moab because it was there that God blessed his people and won’t go hungry.

As Christians, we are also subjected to calamities but with the difference being that we have God on our side. God is the hope that we need to get through - be prompt and take actions.

In verse 15-18 it displayed love of a daughter-in-law, Ruth to Naomi. She was told five times to leave but insisted to stay by her side.
Both of them had great love for one another despite the trials they faced. 

Genesis 12: 10-15
Abram and his wife too were faced with famine and had to leave to Egypt. The famine wasn’t just a challenge to his life but to his marriage as well.

He feared that his wife would be taken and himself murdered by the Pharaoh for she was beautiful. He told his wife to save him by claiming to be his sister.

Abraham had to place his ego aside for the sake of his marriage. It was up to his wife to save him, making him embarrassed as he was useless. However, it paid off with both of them loving each other although they remained apart.

For men, we have to understand that there will be moments of weakness. At that point of time, will your wife still be as accepting?

In verse 17 onwards, it displays God’s work in solving this crisis.
Do we often compare the wealth of others and pin the blame on our spouses?

Seek God’s help when faced with tribulations. I am incapable but God is.

Will we love God tomorrow?
Philemon verse 24 – here speaks of the four laborers of Paul.
They are committed to his cause but is there any assurance that they will remain the same the next day?

Paul upon approaching the twilight of his life was calm for he felt that he had lead a spiritual life.

2 Tim 4: 10
However, Demas had left Paul for he fell in love with the present world – he had lost his way. Demas is a preacher but yet fell prey to the world. 

You will have peace when believing in the Lord but yet we still face many difficulties; will you continue to love the Lord tomorrow?





----
****
